Functions config (#1249)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/photoniq/functions/configuring-functions.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
title: Configuring Functions
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Depending on the language/framework used, all PhotonIQ functions come with a `photoniq.toml` file when they are created. The `photoniq.toml` file allows you to customize the behavior of your functions by configuring settings such as CORS, logging,  metadata, resource limits, and environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a function, it is also created a `photoniq.toml` file in its directory. This file allows you to customize the behavior of your functions by configuring settings such as CORS, logging, metadata, resource limits, and environment variables.
```

> The following table provides a detailed explanation of the fields available in the `photoniq.toml` file for configuring Rust, JS and NextJS functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table provides a detailed explanation of the fields available in the `photoniq.toml` file for configuring Rust, JavaScript and Next.js functions:
```

<Tabs groupId="languages">

> <TabItem value="rust/js" label="Rust/Javascript">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="rust/js" label="Rust/JavaScript">
```

```toml title='photoniq.toml'

> name = "{{function_name}}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name = "TheFunctionName"
```

version = "0.0.1"

> description = "Description for function {{function_name}}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "A description for your function"
```

lang = "rust"
#execute_url_suffix = "optional_url_suffix_to_execute_function"

[cors_settings]
allowed_methods = ["GET","POST"]
allowed_hosts = ["petstore.swagger.io"]
allow_http = true

[log_settings]
enabled = true
level = "INFO"

[env_vars]

> MESSAGE = "Hello 👋! This message comes from an environment variable"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MESSAGE = "Hello 👋! This message comes from an environment variable"
VAR_2 = 100
VAR_3 = true
```

```

The table below describes the configuration options in the the `photoniq.toml`:

| Field                          | Description                                                                |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`                         | The name of the function.                                                  |
| `version`                      | The version of the function.                                               |
| `description`                  | A brief description of the function.                                       |
| `lang`                         | The programming language used for the function, in this case, `rust` or `js`.     |

> | `execute_url_suffix`           | Customizes the [function execution endpoint](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/apiFaas#/operations/handle_latest_mm_execute). For example, setting `execute_url_suffix = "my/prefix"` allows the function to be executed via `/my/prefix/myFunction` instead of the default `/api/faas/v1/execute/myFunction`.                      |

Reviewer: Change to suffix to be consistent with the setting

```suggestion
| `execute_url_suffix`           | Customizes the [function execution endpoint](https://www.macrometa.com/docs/apiFaas#/operations/handle_latest_mm_execute). For example, setting `execute_url_suffix = "/my/path/suffix"` allows the function to be executed via `/my/path/suffix/myFunction` instead of the default `/api/faas/v1/execute/myFunction`, like an alias.                      |
```

| **`[cors_settings]`**          | **Configuration settings for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS).**       |
| `cors_settings.allowed_methods`| HTTP methods allowed for CORS.                                             |
| `cors_settings.allowed_hosts`  | Hosts allowed to access the function.                                      |
| `cors_settings.allow_http`     | Boolean indicating if HTTP is allowed.                                     |
| **`[log_settings]`**           | **Configuration settings for logging.**                                    |

> | `log_settings.enabled`         | Boolean indicating if logging is enabled.  Refer to [Log levels](#log-levels)|

Reviewer: It lacks the `log_settings.level` setting
